# Php-MYSQL-prepare-statements-signup-Login-Crud-Ajax-Data-Search
A prepared statement (also known as parameterized statement) is simply a SQL query template containing placeholder instead of the actual parameter values. These placeholders will be replaced by the actual values at the time of execution of the statement.  MySQLi supports the use of anonymous positional placeholder (?), as shown below:  The prepared statement execution consists of two stages: prepare and execute.  Prepare — At the prepare stage a SQL statement template is created and sent to the database server. The server parses the statement template, performs a syntax check and query optimization, and stores it for later use. Execute — During execute the parameter values are sent to the server. The server creates a statement from the statement template and these values to execute it. Prepared statements is very useful, particularly in situations when you execute a particular statement multiple times with different values, for example, a series of INSERT statements. The following section describes some of the major benefits of using it. CRUD is an acronym for Create, Read, Update, and Delete. CRUD operations are basic data manipulation for database. We've already learned how to perform create (i.e. insert), read (i.e. select), update and delete operations in previous chapters. In this tutorial we'll create a simple PHP application to perform all these operations on a MySQL database table at one place.  You can create a simple live database search functionality utilizing the Ajax and PHP, where the search results will be displayed as you start typing some character in search input box.  In this tutorial we're going to create a live search box that will search the countries table and show the results asynchronously. But, first of all we need to create this table.
